README.rst, before:

Analysis of the mitochondria of *Globodera* nematodes
=====================================================

This repository is a work in progress (with the goal of forming part of a
scientific paper) using publicly released sequence data, primarily Illumina
reads for species *Globodera pallida* and *G. rostochiensis* from the BBSRC
funded *Globodera pallida* project (Cotton et al. 2014):

- Sequencing project: http://www.sanger.ac.uk/resources/downloads/helminths/globodera-pallida.html
- Sanger and 454 reads: ftp://ftp.sanger.ac.uk/pub/project/pathogens/Globodera/pallida/
- Illumina reads: http://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/data/view/PRJEB2242

The mitochondria of these potato cyst nematodes are unusual for animals in
that rather than a single circular molecule of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA),
they have multiple separate smaller circular molecules which together seem
to contain the expected gene complement although with duplication and
pseudogenes. These circles are known to vary between populations and can be
used as markers.


Published *Globodera* mtDNA circles
===================================

TODO - Add list here plus associated references.


References
==========

Cotton et al. (2004) The genome and life-stage specific transcriptomes of
*Globodera pallida* elucidate key aspects of plant parasitism by a cyst
nematode. *Genome Biology*. http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/gb-2014-15-3-r43

Commit message:

TODO note about duplication of scripts at picobio

README.rst, after:

Analysis of the mitochondria of *Globodera* nematodes
=====================================================

This repository is a work in progress (with the goal of forming part of a
scientific paper) using publicly released sequence data, primarily Illumina
reads for species *Globodera pallida* and *G. rostochiensis* from the BBSRC
funded *Globodera pallida* project (Cotton et al. 2014):

- Sequencing project: http://www.sanger.ac.uk/resources/downloads/helminths/globodera-pallida.html
- Sanger and 454 reads: ftp://ftp.sanger.ac.uk/pub/project/pathogens/Globodera/pallida/
- Illumina reads: http://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/data/view/PRJEB2242

The mitochondria of these potato cyst nematodes are unusual for animals in
that rather than a single circular molecule of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA),
they have multiple separate smaller circular molecules which together seem
to contain the expected gene complement although with duplication and
pseudogenes. These circles are known to vary between populations and can be
used as markers.


Published *Globodera* mtDNA circles
===================================

TODO - Add list here plus associated references.


TODO
====

Replace checked in ``scripts/blooming_reads.py`` etc with those already under
https://github.com/peterjc/picobio/tree/master/blooming_reads


References
==========

Cotton et al. (2004) The genome and life-stage specific transcriptomes of
*Globodera pallida* elucidate key aspects of plant parasitism by a cyst
nematode. *Genome Biology*. http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/gb-2014-15-3-r43
